README.md, before:

<p align="center">
   <img src="https://github.com/pitoniak32/axolotl_git/assets/84917393/8d0d9970-5ffb-469f-b382-7d0de50cccb9" width="200"/>
</p>

# Axolotl Git
A repo management cli that will allow your projects to grow, and regenerate like an axolotl!

## Getting Started
(Requires tmux, and fzf for majority of features)
- [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki)
- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)

### Install
(Currently not supported on windows)

#### Using cargo
```
cargo install --locked axolotl_git
```

#### Using Github Releases
Download a release from [here](https://github.com/pitoniak32/axolotl_git/releases), and add it to a directory on your path.

### Running
Add a projects directory file
example:
path: `~/.config/axl/personal_projects.yml`
```yml
path: "/home/your_user/Projects"
projects: 
  - git@github.com:your_github/your_project.git
  - git@github.com:your_github/your_other_project.git
```
now let `axl` know you would like to use this file with:
 - an env var `export PROJECTS_DIRECTORY_FILE=~/.config/axl/personal_projects.yml`
 - a flag `--projects-directory-file=~/.config/axl/personal_projects.yml`

Check the available commands
```
$ axl --help
project management cli

Usage: axl [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]

Commands:
  project  Commands for managing projects
  help     Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -v, --verbose...                 Increase logging verbosity
  -q, --quiet...                   Decrease logging verbosity
  -c, --config-path <CONFIG_PATH>  Override '$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/config.yml' or '$HOME/.axlrc.yml' defaults
  -h, --help                       Print help
  -V, --version                    Print version
```

#### Helpful Commands
open
```
axl project open --help 
```

```
axl project open -m tmux
```

## Tracing

This cli is instrumented with tokio tracing. If you increase the verbosity of the cli you will see more logs with details that can help with troubleshooting.

To modify the verbosity of the logs, use:
- `-v` or `-q` for the console output.
- `RUST_LOG=<trace,debug,info,warn,error>` for the traces that are shipped to the optional OTEL collector.

By default the otel collector layer is not added. If you would like traces to be exported to a collector, you should set the environment variable `OTEL_COLLECTOR_URL` to a url where your collector is running. This will configure the cli to export your traces with otlp to your collector. They can then be shipped out to any exporter of your choosing.

You can try this with the `docker-compose.yml`, and `otel-collector-config.yml` files in this repo.
1. `docker-compose up -d`.
2. `OTEL_COLLECTOR_URL=http://localhost:4317/v1/traces axl project open -m tmux -vvvv`.
3. open `http://localhost:16686/search` in your browser.

### References:
- https://github.com/tokio-rs/tracing | https://docs.rs/tracing/latest/tracing/index.html
- https://docs.rs/tracing-opentelemetry/latest/tracing_opentelemetry/ | https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/

Commit message:

chore: add link to advanced filter options

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
   <img src="https://github.com/pitoniak32/axolotl_git/assets/84917393/8d0d9970-5ffb-469f-b382-7d0de50cccb9" width="200"/>
</p>

# Axolotl Git
A repo management cli that will allow your projects to grow, and regenerate like an axolotl!

## Getting Started
(Requires tmux, and fzf for majority of features)
- [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki)
- [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)

### Install
(Currently not supported on windows)

#### Using cargo
```
cargo install --locked axolotl_git
```

#### Using Github Releases
Download a release from [here](https://github.com/pitoniak32/axolotl_git/releases), and add it to a directory on your path.

### Running
Add a projects directory file
example:
path: `~/.config/axl/personal_projects.yml`
```yml
path: "/home/your_user/Projects"
projects: 
  - git@github.com:your_github/your_project.git
  - git@github.com:your_github/your_other_project.git
```
now let `axl` know you would like to use this file with:
 - an env var `export PROJECTS_DIRECTORY_FILE=~/.config/axl/personal_projects.yml`
 - a flag `--projects-directory-file=~/.config/axl/personal_projects.yml`

Check the available commands
```
$ axl --help
project management cli

Usage: axl [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]

Commands:
  project  Commands for managing projects
  help     Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -v, --verbose...                 Increase logging verbosity
  -q, --quiet...                   Decrease logging verbosity
  -c, --config-path <CONFIG_PATH>  Override '$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/config.yml' or '$HOME/.axlrc.yml' defaults
  -h, --help                       Print help
  -V, --version                    Print version
```

#### Helpful Commands
open
```
axl project open --help 
```

```
axl project open -m tmux
```

## Tracing

This cli is instrumented with tokio tracing. If you increase the verbosity of the cli you will see more logs with details that can help with troubleshooting.

To modify the verbosity of the logs, use:
- `-v` or `-q` for the console output.
- `RUST_LOG=<trace,debug,info,warn,error>` for the traces that are shipped to the optional OTEL collector. (see [this](https://docs.rs/tracing-subscriber/latest/tracing_subscriber/filter/struct.EnvFilter.html#directives) for more advanced options)

By default the otel collector layer is not added. If you would like traces to be exported to a collector, you should set the environment variable `OTEL_COLLECTOR_URL` to a url where your collector is running. This will configure the cli to export your traces with otlp to your collector. They can then be shipped out to any exporter of your choosing.

You can try this with the `docker-compose.yml`, and `otel-collector-config.yml` files in this repo.
1. `docker-compose up -d`.
2. `OTEL_COLLECTOR_URL=http://localhost:4317/v1/traces axl project open -m tmux -vvvv`.
3. open `http://localhost:16686/search` in your browser.

### References:
- https://github.com/tokio-rs/tracing | https://docs.rs/tracing/latest/tracing/index.html
- https://docs.rs/tracing-opentelemetry/latest/tracing_opentelemetry/ | https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/
